# `signature.txt`
In most training or evaluation environments, `signature.txt` is a **file generated by your Virtual Machine (VM)** to prove that (1) the VM actually booted, (2) you are running the correct OS, and (3) the VM is uniquely yours (i.e., not copied from someone else). It’s basically a **machine-specific proof-of-execution**.

## Content
It is a text file (`.txt`) containing the **hash of your VM’s disk**. It’s a cryptographic **fingerprint** of your VM’s virtual disk.

>[!NOTE]
>A hash is a fixed-size string of characters generated from input data using a mathematical algorithm called a hash function. It acts like a unique "fingerprint" for data.

## Purpose
By hashing the disk, your corrector can verify that:
- you actually installed the OS (because your disk hash will be unique),
- the VM booted at least once (since many systems generate the hash after initial setup),
- you didn’t reuse someone else’s VM (each disk has different content, hence a different hash),
- no one modified the disk afterwards (if they re-hash the disk, it must match your signature file).

## How to Generate `signature.txt`
>[!IMPORTANT]
>Run the command on the host, not inside the VM.

>[!CAUTION]
>**Shut down the VM before** generating the signature. **A running VM changes the file**, thus the hash won't match later. In other words, (1) shut down the VM, (2) generate the signature, and (3) **DO NOT touch it again** until you're done with the corrections!

Use the following command to generate the signature in **sha1 format**:
```
sha1sum debian_serv.vdi > signature.txt
```

### Command breakdown
1. `sha1sum` is a program that calculates a SHA-1 **hash** of a file. SHA-1 creates a unique fingerprint of the file’s contents.
2. `debian_serv.vdi` is the input file. It’s your **VirtualBox disk image**. `sha1sum` will read this file and compute its hash.
3. `>` is a redirection operator. It redirects the output of the command into a file instead of printing it on the `stdin`. If the file already exists, it is overwritten.
4. `signature.txt` is the **output file**. It will receive the hash result.

After the command runs, the file will contain something like (hash + VM name):
```
7c4a8d09ca3762af61e59520943dc26494f8941b  debian_serv.vdi
```

>[!TIP]
>You can also use the same command on files to obtain their hash.
